Good morning, everyone.
My name's Dave O'Rourke.
We're here to talk about what's
new for Podcast Producer,
or if you prefer the wrong slide,
the Podcast Producer overview.
This is your choice.
I'm gonna let the final
people get their seats,
and then we'll get started.
Um, I'm really excited to be here
today because I get to do
something we so rarely get to do.
I get to talk about Apple's future plans.
So we have a real simple agenda for those
of you that want to follow along at home.
We're going to go a little
bit over podcasting.
Some of you are new.
Some of you might not have heard of it.
We'll talk a little bit
about what podcasting is,
where we think it is,
and essentially a brief
state of the union.
We're going to be talking about what
the existing product is for Leopard.
I heard some outlandish
statistics about how many people
in the audience might be new.
So for those of you who are not
yet familiar with Podcast Producer,
you'll find this section
very interesting.
And for those of you who do
know what Podcast Producer is,
you can check your email.
Then we'll talk about
why you're all here,
probably,
which is to preview what's coming.
And we'll go over a brief summary
so that you don't forget any of
the morsels of information I've
shared with you this morning.
And we'll have Q&A at
the end of the session.
Oh,
why am I looking behind me constantly?
So, video and audio podcasting has
been taking the world by storm.
My wife lives on podcasting.
Anyone listen to Physics for
Future Presidents from UC Berkeley?
My wife can't get enough of podcasting,
and I've heard from iPod sales
and other things that there's
other people like my wife.
There's a broad range of topics.
You can listen to Physics for
Future Presidents from UC Berkeley,
or you can listen to World of Warcraft,
The Instance, every week to get your
latest fix on the game.
Podcasting subscription rates are
going through the absolute roof.
The download stuff,
the bandwidth consume,
all of it's just up and to the right.
We're in the early stages of
adoption of this basic technology,
but people are embracing
it and endorsing it.
This is a chart showing occasional
and weekly subscriptions.
The scale on the left is millions
of podcast subscriptions per week.
This is just phenomenal.
One of the reasons I think podcasting is
so huge is the web took off because one
person could reach a global audience.
And podcasting has that same dynamic.
One individual at home with a
microphone or a video camera
can generate a half-hour,
15-minute, 12-minute,
17-minute podcast that the
entire world can access.
So podcasting has a global
impact that's just phenomenal.
We showed a chart last year that I wasn't
able to find in time for the presentation
about the number of subscriptions coming
into the iTunes U Store by geography.
And it's just phenomenal,
just absolutely phenomenal,
worldwide phenomenon.
The other reason people like
podcasting is it has the best features
of an old technology called VCR.
You can time shift the content.
So people really resonate to podcasts.
They can find the topic
that they want to find.
They can download it.
And they can listen to
it whenever they want.
They can listen to it on the subway.
They can listen to it while
they're riding the bus.
Or they can listen to it
while they're in this session.
But please stop.
So iTunes U has helped facilitate
this particular phenomenon,
and we offer a destination
for universities that they're
using to get their content out.
We have 64 universities in
six countries posting content,
25 are being on-campus providers,
and 60,000 free audio and video assets.
And that's just today.
I think by next week it'll be like
$600 billion or something like that.
I'm not sure,
but I'm a little fuzzy on the math.
We feel at Apple that
we offer all the pieces.
We offer the devices that people
want to watch the content on,
all the way from an iPod shuffle
or listen to the content,
and all the way up to a MacBook Pro.
Podcasting is not just about the pod.
The pod is the mobile portion of it,
but you've got the phone,
and you've got people's
notebook computers.
What were the statistics we shared
in Bertrand's Day of the Union,
or I believe it was the number of
students coming on campus with a laptop?
Well, a laptop's just a big iPod,
so you can listen to the
content where you want,
when you want, on the device you want
to listen to it on.
We have a lot of software
to help you make podcasts.
We have Podcast Capture front
and center in the icon farm here.
But we also have QuickTime,
we have iMovie, and we have GarageBand,
and we have RSS.
We offer all of the software
technology you need to do podcasting.
And we have a portal for you
to distribute your content
through if you're a university.
So we have all the pieces of
the technology pulled together.
We also have developer
adoption of Podcast Producer,
and podcasting starting to creep
out into non-standard places.
One of the most exciting
developer briefings I got to
attend this year was Tamberg.
How many people in this room
are familiar with Tamberg?
There I'm offering integration
with Podcast Producer directly
out of their content server.
When we sat down and
designed Podcast Producer,
I'm sorry, I didn't think about
video teleconferencing.
But it's a natural application to
take your video assets from your
captured video teleconferences
and make them a podcast,
or make them an online asset library.
And Tamburg is announcing
support for Podcast Producer,
where you'll be able to directly export
your archived video out of their content
server to a Podcast Producer workflow.
We've been working with Telestream,
who was here last year,
and they've given us some very
valuable feedback over the year.
And they have Episode Podcast,
which is a product you can go buy today,
which brings their
codecs to the platform.
So if you want to go to
the legacy standards,
such as Windows Media and Flash,
you can use their product to
get your different formats.
We're working with a
number of universities.
Whoops, went too far.
We're working with a
number of universities.
This is not all the universities.
This is just some examples of people
who've been rolling out Podcast Producer.
I know John Hopkins is on here.
They're already using
it for medical things.
The Army, I don't believe,
is listed here, but the Army is using it.
We're working with a number of
institutions to deploy Podcast Producer,
and they're very excited about it,
and they're doing new and
novel things with it that we
never anticipated being done,
which in my... I've
been at Apple 18 years,
and in my sense,
it's always been gratifying when
we see customers doing things with
technology we didn't anticipate.
That, to me,
is the key of a successful technology.
But podcasting's still changing.
This is still a
relatively new phenomenon.
We're seeing the growth
curve of a new technology.
For all the growth we're seeing,
the potential's huge,
still absolutely huge.
So that means it's going
to continue to change.
We're still seeing institutions and
individuals learn how to best use it.
Some people started by just
doing slideware on a podcast,
and that works well if you
have an engaging audio track.
It doesn't work so well when you don't.
So people are still best learning
how to use this technology,
and we're going to see innovation in
this space from you guys and from Apple.
And producing a podcast until Leopard
came out was more craft than process.
I mean,
I walked through the steps manually.
My wife's a lecturer.
She lectures at
San Jose State University.
And she said, I want to take my lectures
and make it a podcast.
And before I started
working on Podcast Producer,
I sat down with her, and she said,
what would I need to do?
And we spent a day walking
her through the process.
And at the end of the day,
she was very excited,
but didn't have the time to go through
all of the steps to produce a podcast.
And she says, well,
can't you automate this?
And so podcasting requires
merging first-class content,
like lectures my wife gives,
with multiple disciplines
that my wife lacks.
And Podcast Producer allows
San Jose State University to
merge their experience with
the disciplines with my wife's
first-class content for her lectures.
So there's a wealth of tools to capture.
These are some of the tools I showed.
There's Live Capture Tools.
There's Final Cut Pro, iMovie GarageBand.
Third-party utilities are
plentiful and all over the place.
There are multiple
methods for publishing.
This is one of the disciplines
you have to master.
How am I going to publish my content?
And there's multiple methods
for people to view this content.
This is becoming more.
With RSS and Atom Feeds,
you can use pretty much any
device to view the content.
And all the pieces of technology exist,
but as I've said, until Leopard came out,
you had no way to automate
and scale this process.
You might be able to produce
one or two podcasts a week,
but you certainly can't do that.
I certainly couldn't
produce 50 podcasts an hour.
So with Leopard,
we shipped Podcast Producer.
Podcast Producer fully automates
the ingestion of content,
the processing of that content,
and the publishing of
that content to the world.
We provided all of the tools you needed.
We provide remote camera capture control.
We provide direct file submission
for those of you using Final Cut or
iMovie to make your content.
We provide a workflow architecture for
you to standardize the recipe that you
want your videos to be processed with.
And we use standard server scale
technology because we heard from
you when deploying this product
that you think a lot of people
are going to download your stuff.
How do I make sure that I have
the server infrastructure to
deliver all of the content?
We integrated with the administration
tools so you didn't have to learn
a different suite of tools to
set and maintain the servers up.
And we made it secure because
we heard from some professors,
not all professors,
that they didn't want the students
turning off their lecture in
the middle of the lecture.
So the system's secure end-to-end and
is fully authenticated and authorized.
So an example in action,
and this is the canonical example.
This isn't the only way
to use Podcast Producer,
but it's an example that we
constantly reference internally
as we're designing the product,
is you start with some content.
You launch Podcast Capture,
and you can either pull files
in from any of the applications,
or you can start a camera,
or you can use the built-in camera on
the Mac that's sitting in front of you,
and you have some content that
you want to publish to the world.
Using Podcast Capture,
you upload that content to
a Podcast Producer cluster.
This is a machine with a shared
file system and a set of grid
nodes that will process the
video and execute the workflows.
When it's done processing the video,
that cluster pushes the results
to another set of servers,
which are going to host the content.
This could be iTunes U.
This could be your email server,
if you're going to send
email notifications to your
customers or your clientele.
You can have a web server we push to.
You can push to a
QuickTime streaming server.
Or you could just push it to an archive.
We have a lot of people, surprisingly,
using Podcast Producer to
just take the content in,
process it,
and store it away for future reference.
So you can do anything
you want with a workflow,
but it goes from the content ingestion
point to being processed by the cluster,
and then out to other
servers to host the content.
And ultimately,
you're publishing that content so that
people can consume the content on the
devices that they want to watch it on.
So this is the canonical example
that we constantly reference at
Apple as we're designing the product.
But you can be very
creative with this model.
But it is take the content,
process it on the cluster,
publish it to the servers.
And then people watch it where they want,
when they want.
But that's all dry.
So at this point in time,
I'd like to invite my
coworker up on stage,
Shel Bronder.
And he's going to give you an actual
live demo of the existing product.
Thank you, Shel.
Good morning.
So I'm going to show you how easy it is.
So I'm going to pretend to be
Devo's wife and show you how
easy Podcast Producer makes it.
So let's launch Podcast Capture here.
I'm going to log into the
Podcast Producer server here.
So I'm just going to type in my password.
So now I'm at the screen where
I get to choose what kind
of podcast I'm going to do.
So today,
I'm going to do a little keynote
with some audio on top of it.
So I'm just going to
prep my keynote here.
So I've got some slides
that I want to show you.
So let's just get that all ready.
Just use a little mic here.
And now I'm going to select the screen.
I'll come back to this stage
in a few minutes to show you
what other choices you have.
And I'm just going to choose
the unknown device here.
And we're going to go for record.
So Podcast Producer is an awesome
end-to-end solution for podcasting.
It allows users to easily capture,
encode to multiple formats,
and to deliver their content to all
these different kinds of devices.
So there you go.
Now I did my little recording
here back in Podcast Capture.
Pause it using a hotkey.
And now I'm going to publish my
content to the Podcast Producer system.
So all I have to do
here is click Publish.
Here it's going to ask
me for some information.
I'm going to choose the workflow
that I want to submit to.
So today I'm going to demo
the blog in iTunes with Intro,
and I'll explain what this is
doing once I've submitted it.
We'll say this is a Podcast Producer.
We'll put it as a title,
and we'll give it an end-to-end solution.
If I can type.
And so once I've entered
this information,
all the end user has to do is click Done.
The video is now being uploaded
to the Podcast Producer system,
where the system is going to chew on it.
What is going to happen in this workflow?
In this workflow,
we're going to add an intro video.
We're going to watermark
the main content.
We're going to use the titling
information with my open
directory information to create
a nice little bumper title.
And then we're going
to add an outro video.
So while this is processing,
I want to come back to the first
screen we saw in Podcast Capture
and show you the different types
of podcasts you can create.
So let me just hide Keynote here.
So here in Podcast Capture,
you have the video.
So this allows you to do local
or remote video capturing.
So remote capturing, for example,
is a DV camera that's hooked
up to a headless Mac Mini.
Your site administrator will have bound
this to the Podcast Producer system
at the beginning of the year.
And then any professor or any
other user in your institution can
then remotely start that camera.
So if we had a camera
in the back of the room,
I wouldn't have to go all the way
to the back of the room to start it.
I could just do it from here.
Audio is the same idea.
I can do local remote audio recordings.
File upload.
So this allows me,
if I have some processed
content that I've already made,
I can just drag and drop it on top of the
file or in here into the Podcast Capture.
And it'll upload it to the
Podcast Producer system
that will then chew on it.
And you just saw the screen capture.
So, let's look at the problem.
The one technology that
Podcast Capture leverages is XGrid.
And you can see here in the XGrid admin,
well, our job's already finished now,
but you could follow the different
progress of the job here.
So I'm going to hide this,
and you see that I've gotten an email.
So I'm going to hop over here to-- well,
I did make it on to the stage.
And we've gotten an email here
from the Podcast Producer system.
And I've got a little link
here to the WWC08 blog.
So I'm just going to click here.
And you see that the content
here is already on the system.
So if I click here--
have a little intro video,
which I'm sure a lot of you
have come to know and love.
Here's the dynamic titling
that was generated on the
fly using Quartz Composer.
Producer is an awesome end-to-end
solution for podcasting.
It allows users to easily capture,
encode to multiple formats,
and to deliver their content to all
these different kinds of devices.
So that's how easy it is.
Thanks, and back to you, David.
Thank you, Kjell.
So for those of you already
familiar with the product,
you already knew that,
but this is for those in
the audience who are not.
But that's a great demo.
Thank you so much.
So I get a lot of questions about
Podcast Producer software in Leopard,
so this is going to be a
brief decomposition of all the
elements of Podcast Producer.
The Podcast Producer is
a suite of technologies,
not any one thing, that are deployed in
unison with each other,
that all leverage and support
each other to accomplish the
goal that you just saw on screen.
So it's both desktop
and server technology.
All the desktop components are
built into Leopard Desktop,
and all the server components
come for free with Leopard Server.
The icons on the screen represent
what I consider the three main
elements of Podcast Producer.
The icon on the left with
Podcast Capture and the command line
represent the desktop client tools.
These are the software tools
that you use to submit video
into the system to be processed.
And I want to emphasize,
Podcast Producer is not just a GUI.
Everything you saw Kjell
do can be scripted with the
Podcast Command Line tool,
so you could automate this process
and use CronJobs or other things
to do automatic and unattended
submission of the video using
the Podcast Command Line tool.
Man podcasts for those of you who
have Unix installed on your laptops,
and you can see the man page.
The middle element is the server
cluster that represents the
processing engine of the system.
There's a set of software running
on the server that keeps the whole
system secure and manages the
grid and manages all the cameras.
And finally, on the left is something
you've all become,
or I mean the right, something you've all
become familiar with,
which are workflows.
Workflows are the instructions
to the grid about how you want
your video to be processed and
where you want it to be published.
Take the three combination of
those technology elements and you
can all produce a podcast in an
automated and scalable fashion.
So a little brief talk about
the desktop technology.
So there is a new faceless
background task on the desktop,
and this is the camera
recording software.
Every time an instructor starts
or stops a remote camera,
this little server or this
little background process is
listening on the Mac Mini in
the back of the conference room,
and it tells the local camera to
start recording and to stop recording.
This is a new network service
that's built into the desktop,
and it can be configured and uses the
server for all of its instructions.
When it's done, it uploads the finished
video for processing.
One of the things we heard is if
you're going to do lecture capture,
the camera in the back of the room
has to be able to upload one video
while it's recording another,
and we've designed it to do that
so that you can have the camera
machine in a lecture room recording
back-to-back sessions all day long,
and it will just spool all the
content to the local hard drive
and stream it up to the server for
uploading and later processing.
It's designed to run on
a low-end headless CPU,
such as a Mac Mini.
It'll run on a Mac Pro just fine.
If you want to put a Mac Pro in
the back of all your things,
our sales staff would be
perfectly happy to do that.
But it also works on a Mac Mini.
There's the command line tool,
which I spoke of.
This allows you to script or automate
everything you can do in the GUI.
You do not need anything
beyond the command line tool.
We've seen customers actually wrap this
to present a little more customized
HI for their particular site,
so using Cocoa and stuff.
You can build your own
little custom podcast capture
application if you want to,
simply by leveraging
the power of this tool.
And there's the
Podcast Capture application,
which you just saw Kjell demonstrate.
It allows the four main types of
video capture that we support,
the single source remote video,
the audio source, the screen capture,
and the file upload.
There's a server technology to this.
There's a new server process.
What does that server process do?
Well, it talks to all the cameras.
It maintains the access control
list for all the cameras.
It submits all the jobs to the grid,
monitors them for completion,
and it maintains all the
security elements of the system.
The cameras are talking over an
encrypted session to the server.
The server's enforcing access
control so that the biology
department can't start recording on
the physics department's cameras.
And it just keeps the
whole thing working.
It's the conductor of the system.
It keeps everybody
coordinated and organized.
And there's other Leopard server
technologies that we leverage.
We leverage the wiki to serve RSS feeds.
If you don't have your
own RSS feed server,
you set up the Leopard wiki server,
and that will be your RSS server for you.
You can set up the Leopard
email server to do all that.
You can set up the Leopard email server
to do all of your email notifications.
And you use Xgrid for
all of the scheduling.
Podcast Producer does
require a shared file system.
When you're on the grid,
all of the grid machines
need access to the video.
We do that via shared file
system rather than slinging the
13-gigabyte uncompressed one-hour
DV video around over the network.
We put it on a single place so
that everyone has access to it.
And the two shared file system
technologies we support are XSAN and NFS.
And we're fully integrated with
Leopard Server Administration,
so you don't have to learn a new
suite of tools to manage this system.
I do want to talk briefly about Xgrid.
Xgrid is the power behind this system.
Next to workflows,
Xgrid is the most important
technology in the system.
As I came to realize in
Bertrand's keynote today,
Xgrid really is GCD.
It's Grand Central Dispatch
for the Network.
It allows you to leverage
multiple CPUs in a scalable way.
When pressure is applied to the system,
it...
Reduces the number of
jobs it's scheduling.
When pressure is relieved on the system,
it increases the number
of jobs it's scheduling.
And Xgrid's been shipping
now for two years.
I wonder where Bertrand got the idea.
So XGrid is Apple's large-scale
computing architecture.
It's built into Leopard
Server and desktop.
And it can be used to schedule
complex jobs across multiple CPUs,
complex jobs like podcast
producer workflows.
As the jobs are run,
Xgrid's monitoring what CPUs
are busy and what CPUs are idle,
and it's constantly trying to keep
all of the CPUs on your grid busy.
This is a valuable resource
that you've invested in.
You've purchased these
CPUs to process video.
Xgrid guarantees that
they're fully utilized.
Podcast Producer workflows
are X-Grid jobs,
nothing more, nothing less.
They're just a very specifically
tailored job that processes video.
So Podcast Producer workflows inherently
scale because there is no such
thing as a non-grid-based workflow.
All workflows are a grid,
even if you only have one XGrid
node running on your system.
If you add a second node,
without even restarting the job,
XGrid will schedule the next
task on an available CPU.
So we are very confident
that Podcast Producer can
scale for your needs,
and one of the things that
gives us that confidence is the
fact that we're based on XGrid,
a two-year-old technology that we've been
shipping through two major OS releases,
and it's proven very effective for us.
Workflows.
Workflows are the DNA of the system.
The workflow that Kjell
demonstrated had instructions.
Add an intro video, add a watermark,
add an exit video, do a title, encode,
publish to the web.
That had to be coded into a set
of instructions that the grid ran.
So workflows are scripts and descriptions
of what you want done with your video,
and this is how you
automate your processing.
As I've said,
workflows are X-Grid job templates.
The simplest concept you can think of
is it's an X-Grid job template with
the file name left for the last moment,
and we just substitute the file name.
It's actually more complicated than that,
but that works for the presentation.
And Xgrid jobs are scripts that
define a set of command line tools.
What's really impressive about
Xgrid is Xgrid can run any Unix
command line tool or script.
If you want to run grep
as part of your Xgrid job,
you can.
If you want to run ls as
part of your Xgrid job,
you can.
So Xgrid isn't anything special.
It's just a way of running a series
of Unix command line tools on a grid.
So this makes
Podcast Producer enormously flexible.
It can be customized to meet your needs.
You can either purchase software
from third parties or provide
tools that do things for you,
or you can write your own tools and
make them part of your workflows because
XGrid can run any tool Mac OS X can run.
They can be composed
using any text editor,
using XML syntax like shell scripts.
And what we do is leverage
Mac OS X technologies like
QuickTime and Quartz Composer
to do the video processing.
So this makes our video processing
platform very powerful and very flexible.
So, and because they're just Xgrid tools,
and Xgrid only can run any
Unix command line tool,
you can publish to any source you want.
You don't have to publish to iTunes U.
You can publish to your
own internal website.
If you can come up with a Unix
shell script that knows how to
post to your custom web server,
you can add it to the workflow and
make that part of the workflow.
We provide support for HTTP, podcasting,
QTSS.
But you can publish content
to any host you want.
All you have to do is write a
command line tool or script,
and then make that command line tool
and script part of your workflow,
and it will publish to
your custom hosting site.
So virtually any shell script can
easily be turned into an XGrid job,
and therefore a
Podcast Producer workflow.
So if you can script on Unix,
you can use Podcast Producer.
Now, if we just took the core set
of Unix command line tools,
what was missing before Leopard was
a set of tools to process video.
So one of the things
Podcast Producer added is a new
suite of command line tools that
wrap the QuickTime APIs to do video
processing as a batch process.
So some of the editing tools we
provide are listed here on my left.
Merge and Join allows you to take
two separate QuickTime movies
and make them one movie.
Title allows you to add a
title to the QuickTime movie.
Watermark adds a watermark.
QC Effect can apply any Quartz Composer
composition that you can conceive of.
Trim and Split allows you to shorten
the video and split it into two.
Extract a track.
If you have an audio
track and a video track,
you can use the Extract Track command
to just extract the audio track and
make that a separate file that you
post to your audio-only customers.
Delete track.
Delete a track.
And you can add a track.
So if you have a second audio track
that you want to add to the video,
you can use Add Track to add the track.
The next set of tools we provided
that QuickTime did... that we didn't
have command line alternatives for
is to annotate a QuickTime video.
This is adding metadata
to the QuickTime file.
Set the poster frame so that the right
title screen shows up for the single
frame preview that your customers
are going to see on your website.
And encode for various destinations.
This is the powerful tool that allows
you to encode for all of the different
types of devices that your customers
are going to want to view your data on.
We provide a set of publishing tools that
make it easy to publish to a group blog,
the QuickTime streaming server, iTunes U,
email, iTunes podcast.
I want to emphasize these tools
are just the tools we've provided.
You can write your own tools
and use them in any workflow.
And we provide a set of utility tools.
We provide a pre-flight script,
a post-flight script,
and an archive command which will copy
the resulting files to a dedicated
file system for archival purposes.
And I'm excited today to
announce a new feature that
we're already shipping in 10.5.3.
We've added a new tool for posting to
user blogs and not just group blogs.
So we're going to continue
to fill out this tool supply.
We've been doing this with
Google Suite over the years.
And with third-party
help and Apple's help,
this will become a richer and more
powerful set of workflow tools as you
deploy and leverage Podcast Producer.
We've also published a workflow
tutorial that walks you through a very
impressive demo from soup to nuts of
how to write a workflow from scratch.
This is available for download
right now at that link.
And this is a detailed
-- how many pages is it,
Shell?
120-page detailed description on
how to write your own workflows.
And the workflow itself is
quite impressive and useful.
So it's not a mythical example
that we came up with a workflow.
It's an actual workflow that we had
customers tell us they wanted to see.
We provided that as an example,
and we provided a thorough
decomposition to train you how
to write your own workflows.
So we feel Podcast Producer is
as much as you need.
It's designed to be modular
in scale because it's based on
scalable technologies from day one.
We leverage technologies
like XSAN and XGrid,
so you can build clusters of
CPUs that work as a single unit
to process all of your videos.
So scaling your system is
as easy as buying a new CPU,
or if you run out of hard disk space,
adding a hard drive.
So you can start small and go big.
So architecturally,
we can run on a single dedicated CPU.
We actually test on a Mac Mini just in
our cubes with little 15-second videos.
This whole system can run on a Mac Mini.
I wouldn't want to run 50
videos through a Mac Mini,
but you can test the
system for functionality.
And it can be configured to have
some or all of its elements running
on the same CPU or different CPUs.
If you want dedicated functionality,
you can have the Podcast Producer server
running on one CPU,
the XGrid server running on another,
your mail server running on another,
your file server running on a different.
You can just factor this
out as much as you want.
So you can start from this,
which we consider a relatively
small Podcast Producer system,
and scale all the way up to this.
If you want to talk to our sales
team about purchasing this,
they'll be very excited.
So in summation, the existing Leopard
Podcast Producer system we feel is
an enormously powerful solution.
It can scale to meet all of your needs.
You can go from processing two or
three videos a week to processing
two or three videos an hour,
all the way up to 50
or 60 videos an hour.
We leverage Xgrid and the power
of Mac OS X to do all of the work.
So there's a third-party developer
opportunity here to deliver new
and novel tools that are going
to be used as part of a workflow.
And this also means you're not limited
to the workflow tool set that we provide.
You're only limited by what you
could implement on top of Unix.
We use QuickTime and Course Composer,
which offer what we feel is
the industry's most powerful
video editing platform.
The combination of these two
technologies are fantastic.
And Leopard Desktop and
Server is all you need.
10.5.3 has some exciting new features.
We've introduced a new
user blog posting tool,
and we've introduced a
new workflow tutorial,
and we're going to continue to work
with customers and enhance the product.
But I don't think all of you
were in the audience to hear
that particular presentation.
So we're now going to talk about
what I'm very excited to talk about,
which is the new stuff.
So the first thing I'd like
to announce is that we'll be
shipping Podcast Producer 2
with Snow Leopard Server.
We've addressed a lot
of customer feedback.
Some of this you saw on Monday's session,
since Kazu stole my thunder.
Thank you, Kazu.
And the top feature for
Podcast Producer 2 are these seven icons,
which I'm going to go over one by one.
The first feature is one
that's been highly requested,
which is the ability to
record two sources at once.
We've received a lot of
requests for this feature.
We will support recording from a
remote camera and a local screen,
all from Podcast Capture.
So my wife will be able to start the
camera in the back of the room and start
recording her keynotes simultaneously.
That will all go into a workflow,
and we'll composite it into
a picture-in-picture video.
This allows for lecture-style
presentations results
in the final podcast.
And you can use Quartz Composer
to design your screen layout,
and we will, of course,
provide some sample Quartz Composer
templates for what we feel are common
picture-in-picture delivery formats.
So some sample screens of how this
is going to look in Podcast Capture.
We've replaced the file upload
button in the lower right corner
with a dual source screen.
So my wife will just click
on the dual source screen.
She will then pick the
two sources of video.
The one will be the lecture
camera in the back of the room,
and the right one will be the
desktop that she's currently
presenting on from Keynote.
And all of that will be recorded,
unified, and turned into a single video
by a Podcast Producer workflow.
So to graphically demonstrate this,
two sources, a Mac Mini in the back of
the room with a camera and a
PowerBook with a presentation on it.
Start both of those recording
with Podcast Capture.
When she's done recording,
Podcast Capture will
upload it to the grid.
The grid will process the video,
and out will come a movie file that can
be played back in QuickTime Player with
a picture-in-picture presentation.
Again, I want to emphasize,
this particular format of a
thing is just one sample thing
you can do with CourseMaker.
You could do anything you want
with these two video sources by
coding your own custom workflow.
The next thing is the second most
requested feature that we're going
to provide for Podcast Producer.
And that is a
Podcast Producer workflow editor.
How many people just love XML?
So workflows, if you haven't gotten
this point by this time,
workflows are powerful and complex tools.
You can do anything Unix is capable
of with a Podcast Producer workflow.
So there's infinite freedom to compose
a workflow that meets your custom needs.
This is one of the reasons we
feel our product is so compelling.
We know there's no limits built into it.
However,
with power comes responsibility and,
for programmers, debugging.
So XGrid workflows are
specified using XML syntax.
Computers love the XML syntax.
It's easy to parse.
It's fast.
It's unambiguous.
It's all the goodness that
a computer programmer loves.
But XGrid jobs are also parallel,
and not a lot.
As you heard us talk about multicore,
not all programmers and not all people
who can script can think in parallel.
So XGrid job descriptions require
mastering two technologies.
They require understanding XML,
and they require thinking
about a parallel grid job.
And you've got to do that simultaneously
while composing a workflow.
And we wanted to do better.
My father can't create a workflow,
and I wanted to fix that.
And so we have.
But before I show you the demonstration,
I first want to show you some pseudocode
of what a workflow looks like.
This is perhaps the simplest workflow
you could possibly conceive of.
The first step of the workflow is to take
the original movie and add a watermark.
The second step is to join
the watermarked movie with an
intro video and an exit video.
And then the next step is to encode
the video for four different sources.
Now, the reason I've highlighted this
box in this way is all of these
will happen in parallel on the grid.
If you have four idle CPUs on the grid,
all four of these jobs will
be running simultaneously.
If you have two idle grids on the node,
it'll run the first two,
and when one finishes,
the third will go on,
and it will just deal
with it like a queue.
And then the last step is to take
the video that you just encoded
and publish it to a source.
And again, there's no reason for these
commands to run serially.
They will run in parallel on the grid.
That's probably unacceptable code,
even though it's pseudocode.
But that workflow turns into
something that looks like this.
If you catch the syntax error,
you can get an iPhone 3G today.
So we wanted the podcast workflow
editor to be simple and powerful.
We wanted administrators to be able
to quickly deploy a new workflow.
When my wife calls up the
administrator and says,
hey, I don't like the way
the workflow's working,
change it.
We wanted that to be easy.
We want full access to all
the QuickTime components that
you can do for encoding video.
We wanted to be able to
incorporate your custom artwork.
I personally really... One of the
funnest things I got to do on the Leopard
thing was all the intro videos we did,
and you saw our final result.
That was really, really fun.
But I don't think you guys want to
use that video on all of your stuff,
so we're going to allow you
to do your own artwork and
not force you to use ours.
And we needed the workflows to
support single source and the new
dual source functionality that we've
incorporated in the Podcast Producer 2.
But this is all kind of dry,
so I'm going to invite my
coworker up for a second time,
and he's actually going to
show you the workflow editor.
Hello again.
No flickering today.
So I'm going to walk you
through the new Workflow Editor.
So I'm just going to
launch it here in the dock.
And you're going to see that
we've created a really simple
workflow creation path for you.
And I'm going to walk you through the
seven different steps today to show you
how easy it is to create a new workflow.
So I'm going to start
off right off the bat.
The first thing the application
is asking me for is some
information about this workflow.
So this is the information that's
going to be presented to the end user.
So the name,
this is what's going to pop up.
You saw earlier in Podcast Capture
when I selected different
names of the workflow.
Well, that's the workflow name.
So we'll call this my third workflow.
Um,
I almost said this is still super easy.
And that's all I have to do to
get that little information.
We're going to go to
the second step here.
So the second step is the import stage.
This is the funnel.
This defines what kind of inputs
my workflow is going to accept.
So as David mentioned,
the new feature that we're
also shipping with Snow Leopard
will be the dual source video.
So here I can tell the workflow only
accept one source or accept dual source.
So since this is a new feature,
I'm just going to leave
it on dual source.
And then we go to the editing stage.
This is the branding
stage of Podcast Producer.
This is where you get
to brand your content.
And you see there's four elements here.
You've got the first element,
which is the intro video.
You've got the second one,
which is the bumper title
that you guys saw earlier.
The third one is a preview of
what the content will actually
look like with a watermark on top.
And the fourth is the outro video.
And you see they're all linked
together by transitions.
And I can even just skim
over here like in iPhoto,
and give you a little
preview of what's in there.
But it's really easy to use.
And I've got some branding content that
my art department's provided for me here,
an intro video and a watermark image.
And all I have to do
is take my intro video.
I'm just going to drag it here.
There you go.
My watermark.
And I've watermarked my content.
So that's how easy it is to just add your
own intro video and your own watermark.
I also wanted to change
this here to a dissolve.
And that's it.
You know,
I'll just change my transitions.
So this is great.
So with the skimming,
I can see the different kind of things.
But it would be awesome if I could
put this all together and kind of
get a preview of what it looks like.
So we've got this Preview
button for you right here.
And this will assemble the content
and give you a preview of what the
content will actually look like.
So there you see the dissolve,
the flying title.
And I can skim through here.
And you see there's a
little-- this is a preview.
This is the stage before,
which is providing the sample content
of what it will actually look like.
And you see the watermark
that I added in.
Somebody dancing around in a cube.
And an outro video.
So that's the branding,
and hopefully you can
see it's really easy.
So the export stage is where I define
how I want to deliver and what formats
I want to deliver this content.
So by default,
the workflow editor has chosen an
iPod video and iPod-only format.
Well, I'd like to add a little
higher definition format,
the Apple TV one.
So I'm just going to click
the plus button here,
choose QuickTime,
choose Apple TV in the pop-up here,
and there you go.
I've added my Apple TV encoder.
In the publishing stage, by default,
you already have the podcast library.
So David's going to talk
about this in a few minutes.
But I'd also like to upload
this content to iTunes U.
So in the plus here,
I'm going to choose iTunes U.
I'm going to upload the Apple TV version,
so I'm just going to check that one.
I'm going to give it my site credentials,
my site address, thatapple.com.
My tab ID is 20, still 20/20,
and my admin credentials.
And there you go.
Now my workflow is going to upload
the Apple TV version to iTunes
U each time the workflow is run.
The last active stage here
is the notification step.
So by default,
the podcast workflow editor will
send an email to the administrator
and the submitting user to notify
them that their content has been
produced and has been published.
If I wanted to,
I could also send an iChat
message or things like that.
The last stage here is a quick summary.
It just gives you an idea of the
complexity of the workflow you have,
just to give you an idea
about--so you know how much of
a bigger grid you actually need.
So now that this is done,
I'm going to save off my workflow here.
So up here in File, I'm going to Save.
So you see now it's prompting
me for a master password.
So why is it doing this?
Well, you saw in the publish stage,
I entered iTunes U information
with some account information.
Well, that's sensitive data.
I don't want to just store
that flat on the file.
So we're going to encrypt this with
a master password for your workflow.
So just the account information
will be encrypted for you.
So we'll just accept that.
And here I can say,
call this Demo Workflow.
And I'll save it to my desktop.
And there you see it's on my desktop.
Now that's great, it's on my desktop,
but that's not very useful
with a Podcast Producer system.
How do I get this onto the system?
Well, you may have seen when I was in
File here that there's Upload Workflow.
So if I select that, I can specify a
Podcast Producer server address
with my administrator credentials,
and that will upload the
workflow automatically to the
system and deploy it for me.
So we've made that really easy for you,
too.
So just to show you that
I'm not cheating here,
I'm gonna hide this,
and I'm gonna open this
workflow in TextMate,
You might not be able to see,
but here I'm going to-- this
is the account information.
So what I want to show you here is that
we've encrypted all the information.
The password's not stored in the clear.
We can go down to the template.plist.
You've got tons of all the
XML that we were talking before.
We also see I've got the intro movie,
and I've got all the content
that I've added has been
incorporated into the workflow.
So it's a standalone workflow.
So all of the data is in there already.
But that's great.
So it's really easy to make a workflow,
but what does produced content by
this workflow actually look like?
So I've already run a workflow before,
and I'm going to show you
the output of this workflow.
So here in iTunes U,
history of mathematics,
I think it was History of Pi.
Does anybody want to see that?
Okay, so I've just downloaded the content
that was published up to iTunes U.
And here's what the
final content looks like.
So this is the intro video I added.
It's the flying title with the dissolve.
I want to talk to you today
about two of my favorite things,
AppleScript and math.
And when I was learning AppleScript,
I came across this list of
predefined variables in the language.
And one of them kind of left
off the page at me a little bit.
I mean, really, pi?
What is pi doing on a list of variables?
It's not a variable.
It's a constant.
It's the ratio of the circumference
of a circle to the diameter of
every circle in the universe.
It's got the same value of pi, 3.14159.
You know what it is.
But in AppleScript,
AppleScript knows that.
But you can also change it.
And it finally occurred to me
that this might actually be
useful in a couple of situations.
For instance, depending on when and where
you're writing your AppleScripts,
back in the day,
somebody created a molten sea that was
30 cubits around and 10 cubits across.
So if you were doing biblical
AppleScript programming,
you might start off your
AppleScript like this.
Set pi to 30 divided by 10.
You want to move forward a little bit.
In Indiana in 1897,
they unanimously passed a bill
declaring that in Indiana,
the value of pi... was going to be 3.2.
So every AppleScript programmer back then
in Indiana started their script this way.
Set pi to 3.2.
Now, you don't have to depend on
AppleScript's idea of the value of pi
because AppleScript knows what it is.
But we know what it is, too.
It's 3.14159.
Everybody knows that, right?
2, 6, 5, 3, 5, 8, 9, 7, 9, 3, 2, 3, 8, 4,
6.
You can look this up on
Google if you don't believe me.
2, 6, 4, 3, 3, 8, 3, 2, 7, 9, 5, 0, 2, 8,
8, and so on.
You know what?
When I was in high school,
I was a bit of a geek.
I know that's hard to believe.
And I learned pi in 200 places because
I thought that would impress girls.
So I learned pi in 200 places because
Let me tell you something.
It doesn't impress girls.
So that's how easy it is to create a
workflow with a new workflow editor.
And I encourage you to all check out
Steve Heyman's stuff on iTunes here.
Thank you.
Thank you, Shell.
Can we go back to demo machine, please,
or slide machine?
Thank you.
So that was the workflow
editor demonstration.
We're very excited about that.
I encourage you also,
there's a session on Thursday at 10.30.
I believe it's in Nob Hill,
but I'm not sure.
It's at the end of my slides.
We'll go into much more
detail of the workflow editor,
and we've just scratched the
surface here with what this
workflow editor is capable of.
So that's the workflow editor.
We're very excited.
You can do lots of cool things with it.
But we're going to talk
about some other features.
I had seven icons up there.
We've only covered two.
The next feature we're also equally
excited about is the podcast library,
although this is harder to demo,
but I think you'll all understand it.
It's a single-click RSS and
Atom feed repository.
If you want to host your own RSS feeds
and you don't have one set up already,
the choice was to set up a separate
wiki server and Leopard server,
but we heard from some customers
that they'd rather just have podcast
producer be an all-in-one solution,
so we are providing a built-in,
automatic, and fully functional RSS feed
server that's automatically
managed and maintained for
you in Podcast Producer 2.0.
So there's no longer a need to have a
separate server hosting your RSS feeds.
You'll get one by default.
It will just work.
All workflow content,
and this is really...
Enormously exciting.
We're going to harvest
all of the results.
It won't be just the
results of the workflows.
It will also be the original content.
If everything that
Podcast Producer touches
will be archived,
sorted,
and cataloged into this RSS feed server.
And we're going to leverage another
cool Apple technology called Spotlight.
And you'll be able to configure
the repository to have separate
RSS feeds that equal a spotlight query.
So how many of you would like to have an
automatic feed for Professor O'Rourke,
automatically maintained?
So regardless of what
workflow I upload to,
Spotlight will find those workflows,
see that I was the submitting author,
and all of my video
will be in an RSS feed.
By using the power of Spotlight and RSS,
there will be separate feeds that you
can customize by any searchable criteria
that you can conceive of in Spotlight.
So the feeds can also be
directly served to iTunes U.
I don't know how many people have
gone to the iTunes U talks this week,
but iTunes U is also now
offering the option to not copy
the content up to iTunes U.
You can just have a pointer
point back to your content.
Well, we've been working
with the iTunes U team,
and they'll be able to directly
scrape these feeds and get the preview
video and all of that without you
having to manually synchronize that
information up to your iTunes U tab.
So we're working with the iTunes
U development team to make sure
that they have full integration
with the Podcast Producer library,
which is an automatic hosting service
that just automatically works and
maintains your RSS library for you.
In addition, we're going to base-- not
only are we going to use RSS,
but we're also adopting a
new standard called Atom.
And for those of you who don't know,
Atom is a multiple enclosure
version of an RSS feed.
So today, if you want to use RSS and you
want to have an iPod version,
an Apple TV version,
an audio-only version,
those are all three separate RSS feeds.
Atom allows you to consolidate
that into one feed and have
three separate enclosures.
So you can have one bundle that
represents all of the possible forms,
and the client, using an Atom feed,
will pick the correct version
of the video that they
want out of the Atom feed.
So you can have RSS,
or you can have Atom.
Your choice.
Both will be maintained for
you and automatically served.
So this is an architectural
feature of Podcast Producer 2.0,
and we're very excited about it,
because since all of the video
can be served up over Atomfeeds,
it now makes it much easier
for third parties to access
your Podcast Producer content.
What if you had an Atomfeed viewer, say,
built into Moodle,
or an Atomfeed viewer built into Sakai?
You could just enter
the URL of the Atomfeed,
and those services would
go and automatically fetch.
Every time you run a workflow,
a new episode shows up,
Sakai would get updated through
the Atomfeed notification.
But again, this is harder to talk about
than it is to demonstrate.
So Kjell's come back up on stage,
and we're going to give our
last demo for this presentation,
which is the iTunes
U and RSS Atom Library.
So this is going to be
a really short demo,
but hopefully that's
the whole point of it.
And you're going to see how easy we've
made it for us for you to integrate with
iTunes U now with the podcast library.
So how many of you here have already
administered an iTunes U site?
see a few hands, I think you're really
going to love this one.
So here we are on my iTunes use site
and I'm logged in as an administrator.
I'm going to edit this page because
I have this course I want to add.
So before I do that,
I'm actually going to show you the feed.
So I have this monuments of Paris class.
You see there's three enclosures.
This is what David was talking about.
This is an Atom feed we're
just showing in Safari.
You see there's three different classes
and each class has three enclosures.
There's an Apple TV,
audio only and an iPod version.
Now,
I want to bring this feed into iTunes U.
So all I'm going to do here is
I'm just going to grab this URL.
I'm going to copy it here.
And I'm going
Let's just hide Safari.
So now I'm going to edit
my--back here in iTunes U,
I'm just going to edit my page.
And you see I have an empty
European Monuments session here,
so let me just make this
a bit wider for you.
And we're going to create a new course.
And you see here,
normally you have your simple
course where you add in your title,
your short name, and identifier.
And here there's a new pop-up that we've
been working with the iTunes U Team,
and they've developed this new feature.
And I just select the feed course.
And I'm just going to put in "HDP" and
paste in here the URL to my Atom feed.
Hit OK.
Now the iTunes U store is actually
going to scrape that Atom feed
and create my page for me.
So I'm done editing here.
And you see, there you go.
It grabbed the picture that was being
served up through the Atom feed.
It's created my Monuments of Paris class.
And if I go in here,
you now see that I have three different
tabs for all the different formats.
iTunes U detected that there were
three enclosures per episode and that
there were three different versions.
So now I have my Apple TV tab,
my iPod audio, my iPod video.
You see it also grabbed the
picture and the title of my
podcast and the description here.
I didn't have to do anything.
And what also happens now is anytime
content will be submitted to the library,
since it's an Atom feed,
the Atom feed will just update and
iTunes U will automatically detect
that there's new content and it'll
just appear in your iTunes U site.
So that's how easy it is to integrate
iTunes U with a podcast library.
Thank you.
Thank you, Kjell.
Back to slides, please.
Thank you very much.
So while we've done a lot of
work working with iTunes U,
that's a natural and powerful fit.
Well, I want to emphasize,
we've adopted a standard of Atom so
that anybody can do what iTunes U did.
You want your own website
to scrape our Atom feeds,
just read the Atom spec,
which is already published,
and you can pull content from the
iTunes library with no special
programming or tools required.
The next feature we've added
is we've improved the scale and
high availability of the system.
Podcast Producer's already
a fully scalable system.
A side effect of our scale architecture
is there's a lot of redundancy,
because XCrit schedules
jobs on idle CPUs,
and we assume that the pool of
CPUs is constantly changing.
We were already insulated
from a single CPU failure.
That just meant you had one fewer
rendering machine available,
but the jobs kept running.
And XSAN's already fully redundant,
so if you use XSAN as
your shared file system,
there was no single CPU failure that
could bring down your shared file system.
you
But in 1.0, there were two processes
that couldn't be clustered,
and that was the Podcast Producer itself
and the Xgrid controller.
With Podcast Producer 2,
those will be both available in
a fully redundant configuration.
We will require XAN,
but you can deploy two separate servers,
point them at the shared file system,
and if one server goes down,
your Xgrid jobs will continue to run,
and if another server goes down,
your Podcast Producer cameras
will continue to record.
So for higher-end configurations,
we think this is excellent.
So this keeps your systems running
even in the event of a CPU failure.
And if you factor them
out across four CPUs,
two CPUs for the Podcast Producer server
and two separate CPUs for
the X-Grid controller,
four CPUs total,
you could actually have two CPUs fail
and still have the system running.
The next feature we've added is a
web-based podcast capture application.
We've heard from a lot of
you that Mac OS X is the most
fantastic OS on the planet,
but that you occasionally have
to use a non-Mac OS X platform,
and you'd like to be able to
start a camera from that platform.
So we're gonna offer a
Safari-based application.
It'll work with any modern web browser,
but we think Safari's the best.
And it can be used from Mac OS X, iPhone,
or other lesser platforms.
It'll be included as a standard
feature of Podcast Producer 2.0.
And here's some sample screenshots.
So you'll have your standard
login dialog in Safari.
Dr.
Watson logs on, hits the login button,
and he gets the three familiar choices.
Now, why is there three?
Because screen capture's not
possible from JavaScript.
So you can only upload a file, audio,
or video, but you'll have most of the
full functionality of the
Podcast Capture application.
We will support dual video from here
from two separate video cameras.
The next feature is another
highly requested feature.
For those of you who don't know,
we also have a very successful
service called the Podcast Processor.
We're a very successful
suite of video editing tools.
And Podcast Producer does video,
they do video.
We've received a lot of questions about
further integration with that tool suite.
And I'm happy to announce today
we are beginning to do that
with Podcast Producer 2.0.
So this will allow you to leverage
your already existing investment
in Apple's Pro video tools.
We will be supporting Compressor
as an alternate encoder to the
QuickTime encoders that built in
and freely provided with the OS.
And we will be supporting
Final Cut Server as a destination
for uploading your video,
so that you can automatically,
through the Podcast Producer library,
get all of that valuable content
into the Final Cut Server as an
asset library management system.
The next feature we're going to be
including is improved authentication.
This will add
authentication for Kerberos,
and we'll be supporting
Active Directory secure authentication
using Digest authentication
from the Podcast Capture application.
Both the command line tool and the
GUI will support either Kerberos,
Digest, or the existing authentication
methods in the 1.0 product.
We've heard from some customers,
they do want single sign-on
with Podcast Capture.
They want to log in once at login window
and just launch the Capture app and have
it not require further authentication.
We will support that
in Podcast Producer 2.
So in quick review...
The top features for Podcast Producer 2
are a workflow editor,
dual video, the podcast library,
high availability,
improved authentication,
web-based submission,
and improved integration
with the pro apps.
My team is not going to sleep
for the next several months.
We think Podcast Producer is
the most powerful automated
processing platform available today.
It works for small systems,
and it can scale up to very,
very large systems.
With Snow Leopard,
we're going to extend our lead in this
space by adding seven of the key features
that you've seen in this presentation,
and we think this will improve
our lead and validate your
investment in Podcast Producer 1.0.
And it will remain a flexible platform.
Because we're based on Xgrid,
we can run any executable Unix can run.
You are not locked into our
suite of workflow tools.
This is both a feature for deployers
and an opportunity for developers.
You can develop for this platform
and fill out the tool suite where
Apple does not provide solutions.
You're also welcome to compete with
us where we do provide solutions.
So with more standards, more integration,
we believe Apple's platform strengths
will make Podcast Producer 2
the best podcast producer
production system you've ever seen.
I have the mother of all
related sessions slide.
Integrating iTunes U into your workflow,
you should attend that yesterday.
What's new for Podcast Producer?
You're here now.
Best practices for
large-scale XSAN deployments.
If you're going to be deploying
Podcast Producer and using
XSAN as your shared file system,
I highly recommend
attending that session.
Podcast Producer In-Depth is
the session tomorrow at 10:30.
You'll see more of the library
and more of the workflow editor.
It's a very, very exciting demo.
We have some possible surprises.
I recommend everybody attend.
Deploying Podcast Producer is a practical
hands-on review of people who've
deployed Podcast Producer already,
and you can learn from their lessons.
Integrating and extending
Course Composer.
Course Composer is so powerful,
and so many people don't know about it.
With Course Composer
and Podcast Producer,
you can do anything you
can conceive of visually.
I really recommend, if you have the time,
that you go look at the Course Composer.
I'm blown away every time I see someone
who knows how to use Course Composer with
what they can do with Podcast Producer.
Deploying Final Cut Server and
integrating with Final Cut Server,
where they'll be talking about
their further integration
with Podcast Producer.
So for more information,
you can contact our server evangelists.
And I appreciate everyone's
time and your attendance.